# sinking_bim_new

A numerical model which describes the Low Reynolds number settling of a sphere onto a fluid-fluid interface using a quasi-static boundary integral method. The details can be found in Paul Jarvis's Ph.D thesis. 

The numerical model is coded in C++ and needs to be compiled suitably. 

---------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------
Quick Start
-----------
Included with the source code is a Makefile. To compile the code simply type the command "make". The Makefile uses the GNU C++ compiler g++. Make sure this is installed before compilation.

To run the program type the command "./impact <infile>", where <infile> is a file containing the input parameters. The parameters to be included are:

Bond Number
Modified Density Ratio
Viscosity Ratio
Number of elements on sphere
Number of elements on interface
Truncation length of interface
Initial height of sphere
Maximum number of iterations
Aspect Ratio
Initial step size for numerical differentiation
Number of time steps at which output occurs

Each of these values needs to be entered on a new line. An example input file is found in "dimensionless_input.dat".

---------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------
Description of files
--------------------

Makefile - Contains instructions used by buld automation tool Make for the compilation and linking of the source code to produce an executable version of the program. It is best to use the Makefile to compile the code, since if only a few source code files have been altered since the last compilation, it will only recompile those before linking. 

Usage of the Makefile is through the following commands:

"make" - Compiles the source code, creates object files, and links them together to create the executable "impact".

"make clean" - Removes the object files from the directory. Object files are created during the compilation but are not needed to run the program so can be removed. They can be regenerated by running "make".

"make spotless" - Removes the object files and the executable.

----

impact - Executable file created by "make".

----

dimensionless_input.dat - Example input file for the executable. Contains the input parameters for the program.

----

Source code files "*.cc" - These contain all of the source code of the program. Each source code file contains a header detailing the contents (or will do once I've written the headers). The primary source code file is "main.cc".

----

Header files "*.h" - Included by the source files. Contain function declarations and definitions of relevant constants.

----

Object files "*.o" - Created when Make compiles the source code. Once the executable has been created these don't need to be kept and be removed with the command "make clean". They will be regenerated again by running "make".


---------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------
Description of directories
--------------------

Bristol_hpp - Files used for running the code on the high-performance computing (HPC) facilities at the University of Bristol

input_creates - Source code and executables used to create numerous input files in a directory tree to be filled by many simulations

testing - Files used when testing the code
